Mossflower Game Rulebook:
​
In Mossflower you play as a novice adventurer in the world of Redwall, dreaming one
day of becoming a Legend. Mossflower is a co-op bag-building push-your-luck tableau builder.
Setup:
At the start of the game:
1.​ Randomly deal out a Champion to each player.
2.​ Give each player a bag and add to that bag their Champion’s starting Critters.
3.​ Each Player places their Champions Quests, Quest side up, halfway underneath
their Champion card such that only the Quest is visible.
4.​ Place Redwall Infirmary, The Great Hall, and The Cellar beneath the Adventure
Row. This will be the “Discovered Locations” area.
5.​ Reveal three cards from the Adventure Deck.
6.​ Shuffle the Horde deck and reveal one.
7.​ Shuffle and place the Fortress and Villain decks for the Horde above the
Adventure row and reveal the top of the Fortress deck.
8.​ Shuffle the Horde’s Captains into the Adventure deck and then add two more
cards to the Adventure Row.
9.​ Add a Vermin to the Conquest track for each Player.
10.​The Player with the Mouse Champion goes first, or if not in play, the Player who
has most recently seen a Mouse.
Gameplay:
​
The core of the gameplay revolves around drawing cubes from your bag in order to
perform a number of activities. With the exception of Combat, you may pull cubes one at a time
and are free to stop whenever you wish. However, if you draw any combination of two White or
Black cubes, you must stop drawing and your attempt has failed.

Day Structure:
Rounds in Mossflower consist of a single Day, which has three phases:
1.​ Day - During the day players may perform one of the following options in turn order, with
play proceeding to the left:
a.​ Combat - A player may engage in combat with the Vermin on a card.
b.​ Action - Players may activate an Action on a card (includes Recruiting)
2.​ Dusk - During the dusk, players assign cubes drawn during their turn to one of two
options:
a.​ Tableau - You may place cubes on cards in your Tableau
b.​ Worker - You may place Critters on your Location to improve actions and defend
against vermin
3.​ Night
a.​ During Night the enemy advances.
i.​ Resolve any Night Vermin Abilities
ii.​ Remove any Occupied cards from the Adventure Row. If you remove at
least one card, add a Vermin to the Conquest Track.
iii.​ Players must add Vermin to Cards equal to the number of Vermin on the
Conquest Track
iv.​ Add a Vermin to the Conquest Track
b.​ During Night, Players rest, allowing them to return up to two Critters from their
Tableau to their bag.

Daytime Actions:
Combat - On a card, Players may choose to enter combat. During combat, players add all
Vermin cubes from their current location to their bag. Players then draw cubes from the bag until
they’ve drawn at least as many cubes as they added. If players are unhappy with the results of
the initial draw, they may continue drawing from their bag. Combat has two outcomes: Victory
and Defeat.
Victory (More allied cubes drawn than Vermin cubes) - Players have defeated the
Vermin. Return all Vermin drawn to the Supply. If you fought at least 4 Vermin, remove a
Vermin from the Conquest Track and if you fought at least 7 Vermin, you may replace an
inexperience cube with an experience token.
Defeat (Lesser or equal number of allied cubes drawn compared to Vermin cubes) Players add all drawn Vermin back to the card. Add a Vermin to the Conquest track.
Reinforcements - During Combat, other Champions may also draw Cubes from their bag
after you have drawn the minimum amount. These count towards your total drawn for the
purpose of resolving combat and are added to your pool of Cubes afterwards (except
inexperience cubes, those stay with the Player that drew them). This does not count as a
Daytime action for the other player. These reinforcement draws are subject to the normal
bust rules.
Action - Players may activate an action by drawing cubes from their bag until they stop (either
by choice or forced). Actions cannot be activated if there are Vermin on them.
Helping Hands - During Actions, other Champions may also draw Cubes from their bag
after you have drawn. These count towards your total draw for the purpose of the action
and are added to your supply afterwards (except inexperience cubes, those stay with the
Player that drew them). This does not count as a Daytime action for the other player.
These helping hand draws are subject to the normal bust rules.

Discovering - Whenever a Champion activates a Location that is currently in the
Adventure Row for the first time, move the Location from the Adventure Row to the
“Discovered Locations” area.
Recruit - Players may add a Hero to their tableau from the Adventure Row by drawing
Food equal to their Cost (the drawn Food is returned to the Supply). Immediately add the
Hero’s Critters to your bag. If your tableau is full, you must choose a Hero to discard,
along with all cubes on the Hero. The number of Critters that a Hero comes with is also
the maximum number of cubes that may be placed on that Hero (there are a few
exceptions to this that are written on the cards).
Whenever a Card is removed from the Adventure Row, immediately replace it.
Dusk Actions:
During Dusk, players place all cubes drawn during the day to any combination of: Tableau or
Location. Black (Vermin/Wounds) and White (Inexperience) cubes must be placed in your
Tableau and White (Inexperience) cubes must go specifically on your Champion.
Tableau - Cubes placed here may have a variety of effects, depending on the Hero in which they
were placed. Black cubes added to your Tableau are called “Wounds”. If you must add a cube to
your Tableau and you have no open slots, you are Exhausted (Food is special, in that during
Dusk you may choose to return it to the Supply if you don’t have room for it).
Exhausted:
If you are required to place a cube in your Tableau and you have no available slots, you
are “exhausted”. When you are Exhausted, add all Wounds on your Tableau to your
current Location as Vermin. Then place your meeple on Redwall’s Infirmary and the next
day you must take the Redwall Infirmary Action.
Location - You may also place Critters onto the Location you’re currently at. Critters placed on
Actions are called Workers and are added to the bag of the next player to use the Action. If a
Vermin were to be added to a Location with a Critter on it, return a Critter to the supply and
return the Vermin to the supply.
Night:
During Night Vermin spread according to the Conquest Track and the Villain may have actions
to resolve at this time. At Night, players also rest, and may return up to two cubes from their
Tableau to their bag.
Conquest Track and Vermin Spread - During Night, Vermin spread. For each Vermin on the
Conquest Track, players must add a Vermin to a non-tableau Card. The maximum number of
Vermin a card can have is the same as the maximum number of Critters a card can carry. A

Card containing any amount of Vermin is considered Occupied. If the Conquest Track reaches
10 the Coalition loses the game.
Winning the Game - At the beginning of the game, a fortress and villain are revealed. To win the
game, the Villain must be defeated, which is done by clearing all Vermin off of the Villain's card.
Players may travel to these and attempt Combats at them to clear Vermin and win the game.
Players must clear the Fortress before they can access the Villain.
Fortress, Villain, and Vermin Quests and Inexperience - At the beginning of the game, each Champion begins with three
inexperience cubes in their bag. They will also shuffle three Quests into the Adventure Deck.
These Quests allow the associated Champion to exchange one of their inexperience tokens for
a Mastery token. Mastery tokens count as a wild Critter and you may choose not to return them
to your bag if Defeated.
Affinity - All cards have at least one Affinity. When interacting with a card, Cards in your Tableau
count as 1 Critter of their type if you are interacting with a matching card.
Examples:
a.) You are drawing Cubes at the Great Hall and you have two Mouse Heroes in your
Tableau. You get to pretend you’ve already drawn two Mouse Critters.
b.) You are playing as a Badger Champion and fighting a Combat against Critters at
Salamandastron. You get to begin the Combat as if you’d already drawn a Badger cube.
These Affinity Bonuses do not count towards having already drawn a Cube for the purpose of
minimum cube draw during Combat.
Types of Cards:
​

Heroes:

​

Locations:

​

Items:

​

Quests:

